## Concept

The idea of odtp is to be installed as an instance in small-medium computing platform (such a servers, workstations, laptops, etc). However, it can be installed and used in local machines too. 


### ODTP
A tool designed to manage, run, and design digital twins. It offers an interface (CLI, and GUI) for running and managing digital twins. It wraps different open source technologies to provide a high level API for the final user. 

### Components (ODTP Term)
Extensions generated by us or the community that perform specific tasks in the digital twin. The input/output is validated semantically, and they run within a docker container as an independent micro-service. They can be one of the following categories:
	- Dataloader component. 
	- Analytical component.
	- Visualization component.

### Core/core-optional modules (ODTP Term)
These modules are the different parts that we are developing for the ODTP. These core modules include the different classes/methods needed to run the tool and wrap the services used. Some of these modules are not mandatory in order to run ODTP with the minimal features (i.e. running manually odtp components).

### Services
One service or micro-service, in a micro-services architecture refers to one logical unit that performs one specific task in an independent manner. In ODTP we use different servers to support core modules, such as MongoDB for the database, Minion for the storage, or GraphDB for the knowledge graph storing. But also, from a technical standpoint every component is turned into a micro-service when running. I think this is the part that’s bringing more confusion. 

<script src="https://hypothes.is/embed.js" async></script>
